>> Everyone out there in the live stream. Hey, Brian. Hey, Anastasia.
>> Hello. >> Hello.
>> Hey, great to be here with you both and everyone out there listening. Please put some comments and thoughts into the live stream and we'll try to make it part of the show. And with that, let's kick this off.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds. This is episode 236, recorded June 2, 2021. I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Anastasia Timoshevsky.
Hey, Anastasia. So great to have you here. Nice to have you on the show.
Yeah, it's nice.
Yeah, why don't you tell people a little bit about yourself before we get into the topics?
- Yes, sure, of course. So I'm joining from Germany, Berlin, remotely right now, and I
have a little one, a baby dog, joining as well. You might hear him on the stream. I
am originally from Ukraine, I'm not German, I moved to Germany around five years ago,
maybe five and a half, and my passion is Python. I used to be a C++ developer, a game developer,
and so many more languages,
but the best one I think for me is Python.
So I decided to stick with it for around eight years now.
- Oh, how cool.
I started out doing my professional programming in C++
and I know Brian still touches a little bit of C
and C++ in his world, so that's cool.
- Yeah, it's half my life.
Yep.
So.
- Nice, and what kind of games?
- Well, they were adapted first for iPad.
There were like two and a half D games.
And then later on, it was mostly 3D games with Unreal Engine.
So yeah, that was fun. - Wow, how cool.
Yeah, that's awesome.
All right, well, once again, welcome.
Welcome, so glad to have you here.
Brian, do I have the first item this time around?
No, you do, go for it.
- Okay, well-- - What do you got for us?
- Well, accessibility isn't really something,
I probably should think about accessibility more, but I don't really,
but I probably should.
So I was excited to see there was a tweet recently by Matthew Fickert
that said, "I need to give some serious praise
to a fellow scikit-hep dev, Hans Dembinski,
on his excellent monolens tool
for interactive simulations of color blindness."
So I checked this out.
So monolens is a Python package, and you can pip install it.
And as Matthew said, you can pipx install it.
So you just always have it around, which is nice.
And it just pops up this really cool window.
And you can just drag it around
and it makes the whatever the windows over,
all over your desktop,
it just makes it black and white instead of color.
So you can see what it looks like in grayscale.
So one of the things I really liked about this
is the example showing it with Matplotlib and plots,
because plots are really where you're using color
to distinguish between two different sets of data.
So you really want that data to look different,
even if people don't see color.
So that's an important thing.
So that was neat.
And then somebody that replied to that and said,
"Hey, I always try to use Cmasher,
Smasher, I'm not sure,
to make sure they're colorblind friendly."
So I'm like, "I've never heard of this."
So I went and checked out Smasher.
And what it is, is it's a bunch of color maps.
So you don't really have to think about it.
So there's all these great named color maps.
and they're actually fairly attractive color changes.
But it shows you what they look like in black and white also.
So this is kind of a little demo at the top
that we're looking at on the stream.
But the code that you have to,
it's just kind of built into Matplotlib already.
It's also kind of an extension to Matplotlib
and other things that use color maps.
So you can just say when you're plotting,
you can just specify a color map like rainforest or something.
And it automatically is a colorblind,
friendly color map.
So you can do your plots and have it still look nice everywhere.
Oh, yeah, this is really cool.
And Matthew, friend of the show, thanks for sending that in.
I never really thought about this and I should have, you know, I mean,
I feel like maybe I should go over my websites and go,
Do they look terrible for people who have color, vision impairments and whatnot?
Yeah.
So really cool.
And it looks like it's this independent thing that will just go over.
You just move your mouse around. It works on anything.
It doesn't necessarily have to do with Jupyter or Matplotlib or something like that, right?
Right. So the monolens is just something that works on anything.
I drug it over even my desktop, my background, and it showed the picture in black and white.
So it is cool.
- The other thing is, wait, there's a color maps.
I can just add to a map plot live.
That's cool.
Like rain forest and stuff.
I don't need.
- I didn't know you could just do that.
So that's a, that's kind of a neat thing.
And then you can, like, for instance,
one of the examples that they have on the C mash
or read me is just, just sort of a simple plot.
And when you're in map plot,
lib kind of just picks colors for you
unless you specify colors for different plot lines.
But you can just, you can give it a color map
instead of a specific list for each item.
So, and that just kind of, that's nice.
Why not do it?
- Yeah, why not do it?
Anastasia, what do you think?
- Oh, it looks amazing, really.
And it's super helpful.
- Yeah.
- Never thought of that,
but that would be great to use it as well.
- For sure, when you were doing games,
did you have to think about this kind of stuff?
- No, actually we were not that far at that time.
It was around seven years ago, eight.
- Yeah.
- So, yeah.
- On the Monolens site, one of the examples they show
is having one of the plots use some sort
of pattern underneath and not just color.
And I'm not sure how to do that.
Some people that are great at Matplotlib
probably know how to do that really right away.
But that's kind of a neat idea also to have like,
one of the graphs has hashes versus stars
or slant lines or something like that.
- Oh yeah, I have it like
some sort of ASCII differentiator, yeah.
- Yeah, so.
- Something nice.
Yeah, this is super helpful.
I'm Matthew again.
Thanks for sending in.
And Joy, yeah, welcome to the live stream.
Thanks for being here for the recording.
So the next one I want to talk about is something called RapidFuzz.
Yeah, so last time I talked when we had Vincent on, I saw the fuzzy wuzzy fuzzy text matching for
that chatbot that he was showing off. I thought, oh, fuzzy wuzzy is cool. So Mikhail Honkala sent in
rapidfuzz. And it's very much like fuzzy wuzzy, but it turns out to be a whole lot faster. And it
uses some of the same ideas, but you know, coming back to the some of the things we were talking
about, it is basically written in C++ using the Levenstein distance algorithm for words
similarities, but obviously has a Python API that we all work with.
And so yeah, it's pretty neat. It's really easy to work with. You just, again, pip install it,
And then you come down here and do things like fuzz.ratio.
And you can give it two sentences.
This is a test, or this is a test, exclamation mark.
And it says that's 96.5% the same.
Or you have fuzzy, wuzzy, wuzzabear.
I guess these are-- yeah, fuzzy, wuzzy, wuzzabear,
I guess those are-- are those the same?
No, wuzzy, fuzzy.
Oh, wuzzy, fuzzy, yeah, I got it.
I got to read better.
Wuzzy, fuzzy, wuzzabear versus fuzzy, wuzzy, wuzzabear.
Oh, my goodness.
That's 90% the same.
Given a bunch of phrases, you can sort them by similarity.
You can say, kind of use selection,
like, you know, to call in,
sort of call center type of automation,
given three choices and given some text,
you can say, find which one,
you know, like Atlanta Falcons, New York Jets,
New York Giants, and so on.
Somebody says, you know, lowercase New York Jets
instead of uppercase, it'll say,
well. Here's the likelihood that that's a match, but here's another possible match
that's you know and it gives you the ratios of how good of a match it is. So
if you've got a select set of choices and you're asking for input on it, you
can just say well give me the closest match and if it's anywhere close you can
just run with that. So yeah pretty neat right? That is pretty cool. Yeah and the
other thing that's interesting is the performance and before people tell me
that all benchmarks are broken and they don't work.
Sometimes at least they give you a sense.
So here's some of the things that they've got
in terms of performance, say, versus Fuzzy Wuzzy,
and the numbers are like 10 or 20 times faster.
- Yeah, probably. - It's definitely broken.
- It's definitely broken.
I think it's because it's written in C++
instead of Python at most of its core, probably.
But anyway, if you're looking for fuzzy text matching,
Fuzzy Wuzzy is a good option,
And apparently, thanks to Mikko, RapidFuzz is as well.
So yeah, pretty neat.
- Yeah, we probably should do a segment
on benchmarks at some point.
- No, no.
- No. (laughs)
- No, we should do it,
but I've written blog posts and stuff on it,
and it's just an endless battle of,
you're doing it wrong.
Your situation is not my situation,
and in my situation, it's not as good,
or it's worse, or it's better, or you're...
Yeah, no, I hear you.
It would be interesting, but at the same time, yeah.
- Okay, there we go.
- I just had a section on the benchmarks.
- Yeah, I've already just explained
like the emotional trauma that I'll go through
from receiving all the feedback notes.
Ines Cezo, what do you think about this fuzzy text matching?
- Well, maybe next time we can organize
a battle between them.
- That's right, yeah, we'll bring some in.
- Yeah, sure.
- Do you have any use for this fuzzy text matching,
string matching stuff?
- Well, actually, yes, at work,
we have lots of matching algorithms,
but we're using different tools
and I'm not a data scientist person,
but I would love to try that actually.
Looks super cool.
Yeah, we use some C++ libraries.
- Cool.
Yeah, Robert out there in the live stream says
we would have to benchmark the episode
if we had an episode about benchmarking.
You see, it's like recursion.
Save that thought for the end of the show, by the way.
All right, Anastasia, you're up next.
Structured logging, tell us about it.
Well, a few years ago, I went to a meetup and I heard a talk from Markus Holterman about
StructLog.
That's the first time when I heard about this, and I decided to give it a try.
And actually, I fell in love with it, and I'm using it since at least two and a half
years, maybe two.
It's an awesome way to bring a bit of structure to your logs to make them more visible and
more usable because usually how we log, it's like just one huge sentence which is readable
by humans, but it's not machine readable.
And the idea is here to bring more structure to build some dashboards based on different
keys and then values and then see what's actually happening with the system without touching
the logs without scrolling through the whole log and then just reading a whole bunch of
things.
And I already used it in production.
It looks pretty well.
If you try using JSON format, it's just fantastic.
How cool.
Yeah, you can pass it all these like processors and type stuff.
So you can say, render out the print,
the stack info, the log level, timestamp,
all those kinds of things.
That's neat.
- We added a bunch of processors like custom made,
which were specifically designed for our applications,
which made a life of our DevOps parsing the logs way easier
because they didn't have to write them by hand.
And if you use structured logs for all applications,
just one, but for example microservices and you pass
the key id or like trace id or something that will identify the path
which the log goes through, then you might see what happened before
the bug happened. Or maybe because if you want to see how the system
is working, you also need to be either one of the
of the detectives of the system or use the struct log.
- Yeah, it's interesting when you log out stuff,
it looks like you can just do key keyword arguments
and those will add to the log really nice.
You don't have to create a message that you're going to send
that embeds, you know, the value,
you know, variable equals valuable, variable equals value.
You just pass them to the log message
and they become part of the message like that, that's cool.
- Yeah, and you can also use the initial message,
which is an event like greeted here as some kind of key,
which would give more clues where this message
is coming from and what type of event happened
instead of a usual message.
- Yeah, nice.
Very cool.
The other thing it says is if you have Colorama installed,
it will automatically render in nice colors.
And that's very neat.
I love Colorama and I love having colors
in the code that we look at,
it really makes a nice difference.
So yeah, you get things like the colored,
whether it's an info message or an error and whatnot.
Yeah, very neat, I like it.
- I keep meaning to use this more and I know,
I'm glad you brought it up
'cause I definitely wanna try this.
- Definitely try this.
- Yeah, yeah, this is a really good one.
This is new to me, but quite neat.
All right, not new to me, but also quite neat
is our sponsor for this episode.
So this episode is brought to you by Sentry.
So how would you like to remove
a little stress from your life?
Do you worry that users may be having difficulties
and encountering errors with your app right now?
Would you even know until they send that support email?
Yes, maybe using StruckLog,
but are you watching the StruckLog now?
You don't know, right?
So how much better would it be if you had that error
or performance details immediately sent to you
with the call stack and local variables
an active user and all that stuff.
And with Sentry, it's not just possible, it's easy.
We use Sentry on all of our web apps,
pythonbytes.fm, Talk Python Training,
all those kinds of things.
And we know if there's some kind of problem.
It's unfortunate if someone hits a problem,
but it's better to know and be able to fix it right away.
In fact, one time, somebody ran into a problem
over at Talk Python Training, getting a course,
and I got the message.
I could see who was logged in when they had the problem,
and I actually fixed the bug
and was about to push out the changes,
and I got an email, "Hey, I'm having a problem
"with your site."
I'm like, "Yeah, I know, I just fixed it.
"Try again, please."
And they were quite surprised.
So surprise and delight your users today.
Create your Sentry account at pythonbytes.fm/sentry.
And please, when you're signing up,
click the "Got a promo code?"
redeem option and enter Python bytes.
It's not automatic.
So make sure that you enter Python bytes as the promo code,
otherwise they won't know it's from us.
You'll get a bunch of cool stuff,
two free months of the team plan
with many more errors and events and other features as well.
So check them out at pythonbytes.fm/sentry.
That's pretty awesome.
Brian, I guess you should probably also test your code
maybe before you end up with errors.
What do you think?
- Definitely.
And actually before we go on,
I think I've mentioned this before,
but the graphic on that is on the Sentry page is so cool.
- I know, I really like it too.
I love the upset console terminal reading of paper.
- Yeah.
So this is kind of like inside baseball, maybe.
But I don't know, maybe three people might care about this.
But anyway, I'm one of them.
So XFail now works with pytest subtests.
So it's neat, but I got to explain it a little bit.
So subtests are kind of this weird feature of unit tests
that came along in Python 3.4,
And it's a way, it's a context manager so that you can have
possibly several places where your test might fail,
but continue, it doesn't stop if it fails.
And that was within unit test.
pytest had, well, pytest had pytest-check,
the plugin that I wrote,
that allows something similar context manager.
But then pytest Subtests came out,
which was a plugin in about 2019 that started
that allowed you to run the unit tests subtests from pytest,
but there's also a pytest style of doing subtests also.
They're a bit quirky.
So I'm linking to two resources,
an article by Paul Gansel
and an episode of Testing Code where he and I talk about subtests.
And so before you jump in and use them right away,
You should know some of the quirks about them, but they're still cool if they work for you.
But one of the quirks that was around for a long time was that XFail didn't work.
And XFail is a way to say, "I know my test is going to fail,
but, you know, and then you get to decide whether or not you want to mark it as an XPass
or mark it as a fail if it fails."
And the...
Anyway, XFail didn't work with subtests,
but it does now as of like the start of the month.
So somebody named maybe Sibber on GitHub.
Maybe.
Merged a fix or submitted a fix as a pull request
and it got merged and it's now in version 0.5.0.
So XFail, if you wanted to use subtests,
XFail now works with them.
So that's the good news.
- Yeah, yeah, this is really interesting.
So the basic idea is I wanna loop over a bunch of scenarios
or whatever, maybe test them all and then have the test fail,
if any of them did, but actually just go through them all before.
Yeah, so like on the subtests site, there's a little example.
So like, let's say you're looping through a range and you want to run all of them
within not a parameterized, just within the test, you're doing like several things.
And you can, yeah, and if something fails, you want to actually report all of the failures.
And this is sort of helpful with loops,
but why not just use parameterization?
But the one part where it does really help
is if you really are checking four or five different things
and you really want to know,
like let's say you're measuring something
or you're checking several dimensions of something,
and having all of the failures together
would help you determine what the real problem is.
So it's a, it's, it's, it's, it's,
when you have all the information, this is a good idea.
- Very cool.
Anastasia, what's the testing story in your world?
- Well, we use mostly parameterized testing
because we don't have the sub test need.
We don't need to test it multiple times,
maybe in the future.
- Yeah.
- And be useful.
- Parameterized works, so I'd stick with it.
- Yeah.
Yeah, it's definitely good.
All right, another thing that I think
is really neat to talk about,
but I feel like it's almost down
to the benchmark type of situation is,
what do you do with the secrets in your application?
There's shget, SSH get, which is always terrifying.
If you go here, you can see,
oh, here's all the code that we found
in this branch of this GitHub repository.
For example, here's your database connection string
with username and password right there.
So you can see all kinds of issues if you go over here.
There's like even a live stream.
If it doesn't feel bad enough,
you can watch the live stream
of all the things that are coming in.
Like right now, apparently there's some username
and password and a URI and some kind of private key
and whatnot.
So you don't want that.
So what do you do?
Well, there's all kinds of things you can do.
Do you encrypt those secrets and put them in source code?
Well, then where do you store the encryption key?
There's some kind of certain types of vaults
you can install on your server,
kind of like one password, but for servers,
you could do that kind of thing.
There's just leave it in there and hoping for the best.
There's putting it in environment variables.
That's a very, very common one, right?
But still, no matter what you pick,
you kind of got to get that data back and deal with it.
So I want to introduce you to Pydantic.
Brian, you've heard of Pydantic, right?
- Yeah.
I didn't know this had anything to do with secrets.
- Yeah, if you go to Pydantic right here at the top,
I believe there might be some nice little comment here.
Oh, yeah, I thought you were in here,
but apparently I'm in here right now.
I think it toggles between us.
Anyway, yeah, so we've known,
the point is we really talked about pedantic a lot.
It's a really cool way to create these classes
that are kind of like data classes,
point them at some data source,
and then they validate it and adapt it, right?
So if I've got like a JSON document,
it has a field in it,
and that field is a list of something,
I could say in my model,
this thing has a list of integers.
And if it happens to be quote a string,
or a number that has quotes on it,
it'll just automatically do the int parse type of thing
to get it fixed, or it'll tell us
that it couldn't figure out what to do with the third value,
something like that, it's really fantastic.
But what I also didn't know was that it has built-in support
for working with these user secrets.
So Dennis Roy pointed this out to me,
and there's all kinds of things.
You can have the .env file, you can have Docker secrets,
you can have environment variables,
and all of these things has your secrets.
And if you just derive from, instead of base model,
you derive from base settings,
then this will automatically determine
any of the fields that are not passed to it
from the environment or from .env files.
What do you think?
- Well, that's cool.
Where did the .env files go?
- Not in GitHub.
(laughing)
- Okay.
- You know, you store them somewhere else, right?
probably what ideally I think you do is you would store like an env template file that has you know
put this value and then the real value here this value and the real value there and then you of
course uh ignore .gitignore the other one the real one right so you at least have a structure
but so the idea is you come down here and say I've got these settings and we've got like an API key
and auth key we've got a redis connection all those kinds of things and you can even say I'm
I'm going to put a prefix on it.
So in your environment variables,
it's fine if you've got one app and one server,
but if you've got 10 apps running,
or 10 APIs running on your server,
what does the API key refer to?
What does the database connection string
with the database name in it refer to?
Which one of those 10 apps, right?
So you can put a prefix,
so you could have like login app API key,
or, you know, logging app API key.
And you put that in there and it automatically will just let you access it as if it's API key.
So you can sort of configure an environment a little bit better.
There's just lots of really neat things that you can do in here to make that work.
You can say whether it's case sensitive.
Let's see, let me pull up, I had to take some notes, some other things I thought were super cool.
So it's a regular Pydantic model, which means it will do all the conversions and the validation.
And so if something is missing that's required
from your environment,
it'll let you know exactly what's missing.
It'll do those conversions.
Yeah, all sorts of stuff.
It has support for raw sequence files as well,
which is like a slightly different way to do it.
You can have differently named ENV files,
like a prod.env versus qnad.env or whatever.
All sorts of settings.
So I've always thought Pydantic is amazing
and I had no idea it had this built-in support
for working with this.
The other thing that's really cool about this is
if you go back to the top where it describes it,
it says it will try to get these values
from the environment if you don't pass them over.
So if you're in say a testing environment
and you wanna actually pass values that would control it,
you could just explicitly pass them along
instead of having them come from the environment.
So it's really easy to test,
set the test values instead of trying
configuring test environment.
Nice.
We do use it by the way, base settings, but we didn't use
prefixes. Yes. Yeah, which is a good idea.
Yeah, the prefixes are cool. If you have a bunch of apps, if you
just have one, it doesn't really matter, right? Yeah, of course.
Cool. You like this? It's working well for you?
Yeah, it's working perfectly well. And we are committing on
the development version with some dummy keys just to have
them around. Of course.
Of course. Oh wow. How neat. OK.
Cool cool well that's neat that using it.
Brian, you got the next one, is that right?
You already know, but I just wanted to mention the wait.
Nevermind that the wrong thing. Oh here we go.
The quote I think you were looking for was from FastAPI was not.
Yes, yes of course of course.
Yeah, it is. I'm over the moon. Yeah, super excited about it. Yeah fast. Thanks
We use it
I love fast api as well and to me like
Pydantic and fast api they go together because I learned about them at the same time
I know there are different people in different projects, but you know
It works like magic. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. It is. Yeah
And if it's not magic, maybe you should document it or maybe it is magic. You should document it
definitely
- Definitely.
Actually, I'm the one who is usually bringing this topic
to the team, how to write documentation.
And first, the question is why to write documentation?
Everyone knows that we need documentation,
but it's hard, it's time consuming, it's annoying.
And how it usually happens, someone leaves the team
and then the last days are about handing over everything.
- Oh my gosh, I remember I've had this experience
twice at least.
- Writing?
- Oh, you said you're going to,
you've given me your two weeks.
So your next two weeks,
your two weeks notice that you're going to leave,
your next two weeks will be to start writing documentation
for everything you've ever worked on
and anything that people might need to do.
So your next two weeks are to begin writing documentation
that you should have been doing the whole time.
- In Germany, you will have a notice period of three months.
So like it's three months.
- Oh, that's a lot of documentation writing.
- Yeah, just kidding, but normally,
even if you leave the team, like you, for example,
move from one team to another,
it doesn't mean that you have to leave the company.
Still, you have to hand over everything that you worked for,
let's say in a year or even half of the year.
And for example, in my experience,
when I started with Python, I didn't know any Python.
I had to learn it.
And of course I didn't know about Sphinx or Read-a-Dox
any kind of documentation for Python. And what did I do? Nothing. I didn't write it.
And half a year later, I was wondering who wrote this code. So I did git blame. And of
course, it was me. And I was like... What a stupid person. So, yeah. And I suggest to
start writing documentation now. Even if you're not leaving the team. The reason why I'm bringing
up the Sphinx and read the docs is that it will allow to have continuous documentation.
And with Sphinx, you can easily write just some doc strings which will explain what the
function does, what the class is doing, add some input/output parameters, and then you will
automatically generate it. So there's no need to write it somewhere on Confluence or any other
source because if there are too many sources
That's where the documentation will die because no one will go and check it and during the handover
Usually it happens like that. You write documentation somewhere where nobody knows where and nobody reads it
Yeah, you pointed out that you've got it in jira and you've got it in github. Yeah, you've got it in all different places
Google docs. Yes. Yeah
Especially google docs. Oh, yes
And then you share like 10 Google Docs with different people and then they lose the links and people are leaving
It's nice when people are leaving the team
But it's not nice to the people who are leaving the team to another team because they are getting all the questions for a year
Where to find this how can I get this function how to get this data?
Yeah. Yeah, very good advice, you know, uh for a long time sphinx was like
synonymous with restructured text,
but now we've also got the Markdown
with the mist parser there.
So that's very cool as well.
I'm a fan of Markdown instead.
- And also it supports the Sphinx itself.
It supports different types of documentation.
For example, you can write code reference,
then you can go through all the code,
and then you can also write extra documentation,
like Markdown, even readme can be included
into documentation.
and you can also style it.
- Oh, nice.
Yeah, yeah, very cool.
- Yeah, there's lots of great themes to it too now.
Really looks attractive.
- Yeah, you did recently cover that, right, Brian?
The Sphinx themes.
- Yeah, and actually when the Markdown,
the support came on,
that's when I went back and started looking at Sphinx.
So some of our documentation is done in Sphinx now
because it does Markdown.
And you can even make it do,
it's not built in, but you can make it read doc strings
and interpret doc strings as Markdown.
So it's cool.
- Yeah, very cool, very cool.
Robert on the live stream has an interesting addition
to continuous integration and continuous delivery.
So can we deploy it only if the documentation is complete?
Very cool. - Definitely.
(laughing)
- Very cool.
All right, well, that's it for our main topics.
Brian, you got anything you wanna share?
any extra stuff you want to throw out there?
Mostly, I'm curious about pytest uses.
So I'll drop a link in the show notes,
but basically I've got a pinned tweet on my Twitter.
I'd like to have people tell me where they're using pytest.
So I've got some examples.
Then I went, my first question was people,
projects that have switched.
But I was looking at just the guts of how Python works.
There's some amazing projects that use pytest,
like wheel, pip, setup tools,
warehouse, those all use pytest. That's pretty cool.
>> Wow. How interesting. Yeah.
Those are almost inside of Python,
which is interesting because they're not using unit test, right?
>> Yeah. Then I just learned about recently,
even if it's proprietary, that'd be interesting.
I just learned that Stripe and Lyft went through
a pytest conversion recently,
So that's kind of neat.
- Yeah, that's cool.
Yeah, yeah, very cool.
Anastasia, anything else you wanna throw out there
or let people know about while we're here?
- Yeah, maybe using exceptions.
Don't use space exception.
- Yeah, Greek custom exception.
Like for your app or have a certain,
absolutely, I definitely second that idea.
All right, this didn't deign to almost be
in an extra, extra, extra, extra, extra,
I don't care all about it, so I'll just go quick.
So Matthew Fikert's getting a couple of shout outs
on this show, so he also pointed out,
said, "Whoa, super cool, pipx,"
which we've talked about on the show before,
it lets you install Python tools,
kind of like Homebrew or Apt.
They're not part of a project,
but you wanna have them managed and installed
in their own isolated environment,
so you pipx instead of pip install a thing, which is great.
That is now officially part of PyPA,
the Python Packaging Authority.
So yeah, pretty cool. So PipX is now sort of officially part of Python,
not Python distribution, but the group, you know.
Next, I will be presenting-ish. It's recorded, but then there's like a live Q&A afterwards.
Manning is having a conference on developer productivity.
I don't honestly remember what my talk is going to be about. Oh, yes, here it is.
It's 10 tips and tools you can adopt in 15 minutes or less
to level up your developer productivity.
So I'm going to be speaking on that.
- Who knew? - All sorts of fun things.
So if you want to check that out, it's free to register for.
It's later this month, I guess.
Here's just a thought I would throw out there for you.
I don't expect an answer, but yikes, cloud bills can pile up.
Alex Chan, who is teaching, I guess.
I could figure out exactly the context of this,
But she put out a tweet that said, I have a panicked student in my DMs who accidentally
racked up an $8,000 AWS bill.
My suggestion of talk to support is no good.
Apparently, they won't issue a billing adjustment.
Anyone got ideas out there?
Help?
Oh, no.
Could you imagine as a student?
I mean, as a professional, it's still a lot of money.
But as a student, $8,000 is like a ton of money.
Yeah, it's like a term of bills.
but it depends on--
- Yes, exactly.
Yeah, like a semester of studies or something.
So maybe other students and basically all people out there,
put up billing alerts on whatever cloud thing you're doing,
on whatever places I have, including AWS,
I get periodically, I get an announcement.
It's like, your bill is now at $50.
Your bill is at $100.
Your bill is now at $500.
Your bill is now at $1,000.
And if it goes beyond that,
I'm gonna have to start paying a lot of attention
to what's going on with my AWS account.
So just put these alerts on there.
It's usually easy with whatever platform you're on.
Anyway, don't be that poor student.
All right, what's next?
Brian Skin shot it out.
Hey, this might not be a total new item,
but maybe we can mention it.
Maybe it's interesting.
Developed a Flake,
mentioned a Flake,
he didn't develop it, I don't believe.
a Flake 8 plugin for FastAPI.
So if you're doing FastAPI,
there's different ways to do things like routes and whatnot.
And there's like the natural way
and there's sort of a clumsy way.
And so here's a Flake 8 thing
to make sure you're doing FastAPI.
Nice.
- Interesting.
- Yup.
- That would be useful.
- Yeah, yeah.
And I think this is my last one.
It is my last one here.
So, Sal Shannonbrook tweeted,
JupyterLab 3 will have localization.
So localization means like the menus and the help text
and the button hover tips and all that kind of stuff
are localized for different languages.
So JupyterLab 3 will have localization making
it more approachable for people who don't want to work in an English UI.
And they're crowdsourcing translations.
So if you wanted to contribute to Jupyter
And you were good at programming and in a language that's not English because it's already done in English
You know go check that out. That would be kind of cool
What if anybody just messes with people and like does it wrong translations just for fun I'm so afraid of that yeah
I think they do
But they do I bet they do and maybe not really obvious maybe in real subtle ways
Yeah, yeah, yeah, never mind don't don't don't don't give people ideas this is not
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- That's a good one.
- All right, well, that's all the extras as well.
So how about a joke?
- Yeah.
- Okay.
So imagine you're learning programming,
you're learning Python,
take one of these computer science courses
where they talk about weird things like recursion.
So recursion is the idea that the function calls itself
with different parameters, right?
Like a really common example would be factorial.
So if I'm going to calculate a factorial, it's just n times n minus 1 times n minus 2.
So that's just n times factorial of the smaller number.
You just like work your way back, right?
But there should be an exit condition like if n equals 1, return.
Don't keep recursing.
So here's a nice little graphic under the banner of only programmers who would understand.
And it's got the four squares.
It's kind of like screen sharing.
We got that infinite view.
So learn a program in one corner.
Next corner, make recursive function.
Third corner, no exit condition.
And then it just repeats and repeats and repeats
down to smaller and smaller and smaller. I love it.
This is bad.
No, this is good.
That's how you learn.
That's right. No.
Yeah, exactly. It's like when you share your screen
in Zoom or maybe
Google Meet, but you've still got the window up or something
like that, but it's about recursion. It's beautiful.
And then you silence base exceptions and you cannot exit the program.
Yes, that's right.
Do you know if, yeah, do you know if Python has a tail recursion optimization?
I'm thinking, I'm thinking no.
Like, so the whole point is here, Brian, that we would run out of a call stack
space really quickly, and that's usually the error stack overflow error.
If you recurse too deep type of thing.
Yeah.
But with trail recursion, it basically becomes an infinite loop.
So you run out of time instead of memory.
Okay.
So, but I don't, so that would be the advantage of Taylor recursion.
I have no idea if it is there or not.
Yeah.
I mean, there's some languages that do the optimization, so they don't, they don't generate
a new call stack because there's nothing to save.
So yeah.
Anyway.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I'm sure we will find out before next week.
Yeah.
One of the reasons why I like asking open-ended questions on the podcast.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Yep.
Well, Brian, thank you as always.
And Anastasia, thank you for being here.
It was great to have you as a guest.
- Thanks. - Thank you for inviting.
Thank you.
- Yeah.
Bye.
And bye everyone out there in the live stream.